
## What is Terraform?

- Terraform is a tool for building, changing, and versioning infrastructure safely and efficiently.
- Terraform can manage existing and popular service providers as well as custom in-house solutions.
- Terraform look for configuration files starting with .tf and it can run single application or entire datacenter.
- T**erraform generates execution plan for what it will do to reach the designed state of infrastructure.**
- Then it executes it to build the desired infrastructure. 
- As Configuration changes, terraform is able to determine what changed to build the desired infrastructure.
- The infrastructure Terraform can manage includes low-level components such as compute instances, storage, and networking, as well as high-level components such as DNS entries, SaaS features, etc.
- An important advantage of Terraform is that is **supports over 100 resource providers** including the major public cloud providers, such as Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform. In this Lab, you will learn the basics of working with Terraform and create an Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) with Terraform.

### Tools for IaC
- Tools for IaC
  - Terraform
  - AWS Cloud Formation
  - Azure RM
  - Google Cloud Deployment Manager
  - Chef
  - Puppet
  - Ansible
  - SaltStack

### Advantages: 

- Consistency : produce exactly same results everytime
- Version Controlled
- infrastructure validation before deployment : 
  - we get to also know how infra will look like even before actual deployment 
  - Using IaC we can also do testing  static code analysis and prevent major problems
- Speed 
- High Efficiency - 
- Accountability
- Reusability
- Minimization of Costs and Effort
- 

### Install Terraform and Azure CLI

- Download Terraform from here:
https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html and add path to Windows Environment Variable. 

- https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli-windows?tabs=azure-cli
- Install CLI by running .msi pacakge. 

```
D:\lggram\mylearning>az login
The default web browser has been opened at https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/authorize. Please continue the login in the web browser. If no web browser is available or if the web browser fails to open, use device code flow with `az login --use-device-code`.
You have logged in. Now let us find all the subscriptions to which you have access...
[
{
"cloudName": "AzureCloud",
"homeTenantId": "cd0b197f-73fa-47b3-80e9-************",
"id": "fb72fb64-3638-4494-bee3-de69fbe51073",
"isDefault": true,
"managedByTenants": [],
"name": "Azure subscription 1",
"state": "Enabled",
"tenantId": "cd0b197f-73fa-47b3-************",
"user": {
"name": "************@gmail.com",
"type": "user"
}
}
]
```






