
(1)
go to https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/virtual_machine
and copy sample code for virtual machine from azure.

(2) D:\lggram\mylearning\terra\terraform\azure>**terraform init**

Initializing the backend...

Initializing provider plugins...
- Finding latest version of hashicorp/azurerm...
- Installing hashicorp/azurerm v2.41.0...
- Installed hashicorp/azurerm v2.41.0 (signed by HashiCorp)

Terraform has created a lock file .terraform.lock.hcl to record the provider
selections it made above. Include this file in your version control repository
so that Terraform can guarantee to make the same selections by default when
you run "terraform init" in the future.

Following provider here would be downloaded: 
azure/.terraform/providers/registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/azurerm/2.41.0/windows_amd64/terraform-provider-azurerm_v2.41.0_x5.exe



(3) D:\lggram\mylearning\terra\terraform\azure>terraform plan

An execution plan has been generated and is shown below.
Resource actions are indicated with the following symbols:
+ create

Terraform will perform the following actions:

# azurerm_network_interface.main will be created
+ resource "azurerm_network_interface" "main" {
    + applied_dns_servers           = (known after apply)
    + dns_servers                   = (known after apply)
    + enable_accelerated_networking = false
    + enable_ip_forwarding          = false
    
--------
------



(4) D:\lggram\mylearning\terra\terraform\azure>terraform apply

Plan: 5 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.

-----
----
-----
Do you want to perform these actions?
Terraform will perform the actions described above.
Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.

Enter a value:yes


First VM on azure will be created:
notes/1.2.1_first_vm_creation.jpg






