#OS disk
Every virtual machine has one attached operating system disk. That OS disk has a pre-installed OS, which was selected when the VM was created. This disk contains the boot volume.

This disk has a maximum capacity of 4,095 GiB.

#Data disk
A data disk is a managed disk that's attached to a virtual machine to store application data, or other data you need to keep. Data disks are registered as SCSI drives and are labeled with a letter that you choose. Each data disk has a maximum capacity of 32,767 gibibytes (GiB). The size of the virtual machine determines how many data disks you can attach to it and the type of storage you can use to host the disks.

#Temporary disk
Most VMs contain a temporary disk, which is not a managed disk. The temporary disk provides short-term storage for applications and processes, and is intended to only store data such as page or swap files. Data on the temporary disk may be lost during a maintenance event or when you redeploy a VM.
On Azure Linux VMs, the temporary disk is typically /dev/sdb and on Windows VMs the temporary disk is D: by default.


#Adding external volume

Under resource azurerm_virtual_machine, we can add addtional disk as follows:

- make sure external disk name is unique
- make sure lun is different for each external disk added

-----------------------------------------------
storage_data_disk {
create_option = "Empty"
lun = 1
name = "additonal-data-disk-1"
managed_disk_type = "Standard_LRS"
disk_size_gb = 10

}
-----------------------------------------------

For managed disk we can add following resouce( note that its seperate resouce: 

resource "azurerm_managed_disk" "manageddisk" {
create_option = "Empty"
location = azurerm_resource_group.main.location
name = "managed_disk"
resource_group_name = azurerm_resource_group.main.name
storage_account_type = "Standard_LRS"
disk_size_gb = 10
}

-----------------------------------------------

once we apply the config, we will have two additonal data disk created and one managed disk created.
notes/2.2.1_external_disk_addtion.jpg

