
- An Azure storage account contains all of your Azure Storage data objects: blobs, files, queues, tables, and disks. The storage account provides a unique namespace for your Azure Storage data that is accessible from anywhere in the world over HTTP or HTTPS

- if we want data to be shared then we can create azure file share otherwise we can just use azure data disk.
- for better reliability, among azure data disk - azure managed disk is better. 

- There are 4 types of storage in Azure, namely:
File
Blob
Queue
Table

#File Storage:


Disk Types
Azure offers 2 types of disk storage:

Managed

Managed disk has some advantages over unmanaged disks in the sense that disks will be created and managed for you. This is a IaaS offering.

Unmanaged

With unmanaged disks, you must manage it yourself. Basically, this means that your virtual hard disks are stored in a storage account as page blobs.

And two types of disks:

Premium

Which means your data will be placed on solid state disks

Standard

Where data is placed on regular hard disk drives

#Blob


- The word blob is an acronym which stands for binary large object. Blobs typically include large files that are unstructured, such as images, video, music files, backup files etc.
- Blob storage can be divided into two access tiers, a hot access tier for data which is accessed frequently and a cold access tier for data which is not accessed very often.
- You must choose the type of blob when you create the blob and unfortunately once the blob is created it’s not possible to change it to a different type.
- Blobs are grouped into "containers" that are tied to user accounts


#Queue


-Queue Storage is somewhat like MSMQ. It allows you to decouple your components and have reliable asynchronous communication.






#Table

- Table storage is used to store semi-structured data in a key-value format in a NoSQL datastore.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Added following azure/storage.tf for creating blob and file share
- notes/2.4.2_storage_file_share.jpg and notes/2.4.1_storage_blob.jpg created after apply command.
