
 terraform\terraform_multiple_vm_with_count
 reference: https://blog.gruntwork.io/terraform-tips-tricks-loops-if-statements-and-gotchas-f739bbae55f9
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) 
(a) 
variable "vmname" { default = ["vmname1", "vmname2", "vmname3" ] }


(b)
resource "azurerm_virtual_machine" "main" {
count                 = length(var.vmname)  


name                  = "${var.prefix}-${count.index +1}-${var.vmname[count.index]}"
location              = azurerm_resource_group.main.location
resource_group_name   = azurerm_resource_group.main.name
network_interface_ids = [azurerm_network_interface.main.id]
vm_size               = "Standard_DS1_v2"

(c) storage_os_disk {
# we can only have one unique disk  per VM
name              = "myosdisk1-${count.index+1}"
caching           = "ReadWrite"
create_option     = "FromImage"
managed_disk_type = "Standard_LRS"
}

(d) # each VM can have unique nic: 

resource "azurerm_network_interface" "main" {
count                 = length(var.vmname)
name                = "${var.prefix}-nic-${count.index +1}"


resource "azurerm_virtual_machine" "main" {
 
# network_interface_ids = [azurerm_network_interface.main.id]
# each VM can have unique nic: 
network_interface_ids = ["${element(azurerm_network_interface.main.*.id,count.index+1)}"]
 
(e) 


(f) 


#once we have used count it becomes list of resource rather than just one resource
# Note that once you’ve used count on a resource, it becomes a list of resources, rather than just one resource. Since azurerm_virtual_machine.main is now a list of VM's, instead of using the standard syntax to read an attribute
# from that resource (<PROVIDER>_<TYPE>.<NAME>.<ATTRIBUTE>), you have to specify which VM you’re interested in by specifying its index in the list using the same array lookup syntax:

# <PROVIDER>_<TYPE>.<NAME>[INDEX].ATTRIBUTE
# output "virual_machine_name" {
#   value = "${azurerm_virtual_machine.main[1].name}"
# }

# If you want the names for all VM's , you need to use a splat expression, "*", instead of the index:

output "virual_machine_name" {
  value = "${azurerm_virtual_machine.main[*].name}"
}


Outputs:

virual_machine_location = [
  "eastus2",
]
virual_machine_name = [
  "tfnitin-1-vmname1",
  "tfnitin-2-vmname2",
  "tfnitin-3-vmname3",
]
virual_machine_network_interface = [
  "tfnitin-network",
]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(2) 
Unfortunately, count has two limitations that significantly reduce its usefulness. 

First, while you can use count to loop over an entire resource, you can’t use count within a resource to loop over inline blocks. 

An inline block is an argument you set within a resource of the format:
resource "xxx" "yyy" {
  <NAME> {
    [CONFIG...]
  }
}


where NAME is the name of the inline block (e.g., tag) and CONFIG consists of one or more arguments that are specific to that inline block (e.g., key and value).


example: 

tag {
    key                 = "test"
    value               = "somevalue"
  }

Each tag requires you to create a new inline block with values for key, value . The preceding code hardcodes a single tag, but you may want to allow users to pass in custom tags. You might be tempted to try to use the count parameter to loop over these tags and generate dynamic inline tag blocks, but unfortunately, using count inside of an inline block is not supported.

(3) 
The second limitation with count is what happens when you try to change it. Consider the list of VMs you created earlier:

Imagine you removed "tfnitin-2-vmname2" from this list. What happens when you run terraform plan?

variable "vmname" { default = ["vmname1", "vmname3" ] } 

When you use the count parameter on a resource, that resource becomes a list or array of resources. Unfortunately, the way Terraform identifies each resource within the array is by its position (index) in that array. 

When you remove an item from the middle of an array, all the items after it shift back by one, so after running plan with just two bucket names,

In other words, every time you use count to create a list of resources, if you remove an item from the middle of the list, Terraform will delete every resource after that item and then recreate those resources again from scratch. Ouch. The end result, of course, is exactly what you requested (i.e., two IAM users named morpheus and neo), but deleting and modifying resources is probably not how you want to get there.

 
# New outout will be 
Changes to Outputs:
  ~ virual_machine_name = [
        "tfnitin-1-vmname1",
      - "tfnitin-2-vmname2",
      - "tfnitin-3-vmname3",
      + "tfnitin-2-vmname3",
    ]


That's why we need to switch to for_each expression as discussed in next section. 
